So now that we have an enemy, we have to make it move.
The movements won't be created by the user.
There will be automatically generated by the code.
So what do we want our enemy to do?
We want it to move from left to right and change directions once it has touched the left and right screen
edges.
Besides changing directions when touching the edges, we want our enemy to go between 40 or 50 pixels
downwards until putting our rocket at risk of being destroyed.
So how do we do this?
Let's go back to our code and look for our enemies movements here as we copied the lines of player.
The changing value is equal to zero, which makes our enemy stop once it reaches the edges.
But we don't want our enemy to stop.
We want it to change directions.
So let's change this value to 0.3 so that it takes our enemy to the right, first of all.
We'll also create a changing value for enemy Y change since we want it to move downwards.
How many pixels?
Let's say 50.
I think that's fine.
Now let's go to this loop that says modify player location and keep player inside edges.
I did this in order to differentiate this loop from the one we'll create for the enemy.
So now let's copy and paste this and retype modify enemy location.
And keep me inside edges.
So what will be the difference between this and player?
Everything that says player needs to be changed to enemy.
So to save some time, we'll copy the word enemy and replace player everywhere with it so as not to
type enemy again and again.
All right.
What we have to do now is to decide what's going to happen when the enemy touches an edge.
Player stopped because of this value.
In this case, let's make enemy X change B equal to 0.3.
And if the enemy touches the right edge.
Enemy X change will be equal to -0.3.
So our enemy should move to the right each time it touches the left edge and vice versa.
So let's see how this works.
By executing our rocket, we see that it moves to the edge by means of 0.3, and when it gets there,
it bounces off the edge and starts moving to the opposite direction.
So it's working just fine.
Now we have to make our enemy move 50 pixels downwards every time it gets to the edge.
To do so, we just add in both ifs enemy y plus equals the value of enemy y change which is 50 pixels.
Let's repeat this same line so that our enemy does the same when touching the right edge.
That should do it.
So let's check if this works.
The enemy touches the edge, moves downwards and changes direction.
Then it gets to the other edge, moves downwards and changes direction.
This makes our enemy inherently dangerous.
I'd rather position our rocket a little bit higher so that our enemy doesn't need to go all the way
down.
So let's keep our player in suspense.
Right?
So we move here to play a Y initial position, and let's enter 500 instead of 536.
I think this will be perfect.
And from here on, we'll keep on improving our game and make our rocket go on a mission of destroying
all these enemies before they destroy it.
We'll continue to do this in the next lesson.